+++
date = "2017-05-06T15:11:24-05:00"
draft = false
title = “In sterquiliniis invenitur”

-- in filth it will be found

  Deep in the dirtiest, most shameful crevices of life and thought
are the answers to what plagues your mind. I think you can only
find peace when you confront the nastiness of your own self,
and that peace doesn't mean you will stop suffering, it just means
you can wield your suffering as a weapon against the decay of the
world. I know that doesn't make much sense, but it's an idea I've been
trying to feel out, something I've been working with my whole life.
I hope I can generate a coherent argument about it someday. Anyway,
that's as good an introduction about myself that I can think of at
the moment.

  I haven't had a blog in a while, but I figured it would be nice
to have an online space so I can easily share my poetry and writing
with friends. Here you go, friends.

  I am currently working on a villanelle draft, it's about 3/4 of the way
done, as far as I can tell. I've never tried to revise a poem to the end,
and it's far more complex than I imagined. It's also more rewarding. There
is something about the tweaking process, especially when working in form.
It's a puzzle that has many solutions, I have to be good enough, watchful
enough to understand what a correct solution will look like.

Here's an excerpt: It wasn't his fault
he spoke in tongues, an unyoked river of jubilant
chaos, scaring me, choking, sweet angelic dread.
My father never called it a cult.

I've been playing around with pacing and coherence in that bit,
it will change, but I wanted to see how unbridled I could write
and still make sense. I really like the relationship between "spoke"
and "unyoked", with the sounds and meanings. Speaking is an unleashing
of thoughts, words from the mouth, letting loose organic output.
Unyoking is similar, releasing actual living beings from bondage.
That's what I feel like I am doing when I write, releasing living things,
these words that interact on so many different complex levels, these
words that can impact other people.

This poem contains a lot of nastiness. A lot of my own personal filth.
But writing it has been really helpful. It is deeply personal, but
I workshopped it twice in class, read it out loud. I shared my weird secrets
with strangers and I survived. I found out I could make a good poem, I know
how to revise something, make it better. 




+++
